feat: add hubspot sample (#150)
autokitteh/samples: samples/hubspot/README.md

---
title: HubSpot
description: Simple usage of the HubSpot API
integrations: ["hubspot"]
categories: ["Samples"]
---

# HubSpot Sample

This [AutoKitteh](https://github.com/autokitteh/autokitteh) project
demonstrates integration with [HubSpot](https://www.hubspot.com).

It sends a couple of requests to the HubSpot API, adds a contact, retrieves deals, and prints the responses back to the user.

API details:

- [HubSpot API](https://pypi.org/project/hubspot-api-client/)
- [Python client library](https://github.com/HubSpot/hubspot-api-python)

## How It Works

1. Create a new contact in HubSpot with predefined details.

> 2. Retrieve and list all deals from HubSpot, displaying their IDs and names.

Reviewer: List items are (usually) not considered full sentences
```suggestion
1. Create a new contact in HubSpot with predefined details
2. Retrieve and list all deals from HubSpot, displaying their IDs and names
```

## Cloud Usage (Recommended)

> - Initialize your connection through the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Initialize your connection through the UI
```

2. Edit the trigger of the workflow you want to trigger, in the "TRIGGERS" tab, under the "Actions" column.
3. Copy the provided webhook URL.

> 4. Send the webhook with a curl GET or POST request, depending on the selected webhook.

Reviewer: The webhook is the destination, you can't "send a webhook". Instead:
```suggestion
4. Send GET or POST requests to the webhook of your choice:

```

>    - For create_contact_webhook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For `create_contact_webhook`:
```

      ```shell

>          curl -X POST "https://api.autokitteh.cloud/webhooks/{your-webhook-slug}?email=email&firstname=name&lastname=name"

Reviewer: 1. Align the content of the code block with the beginning 
of "```", not the end
2. Specify data as CLI flags, don't attach to the URL
3. Due to using `-d`, `POST` is already implied
```suggestion
      curl "https://api.autokitteh.cloud/webhooks/{your-webhook-slug}" \
           -d email=meow@autokitteh.com \
           -d firstname=Kitty \
           -d lastname=Meowington
```

      ```

>    - For list_deals_webhook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For `list_deals_webhook`:
```

      ```shell

>          curl -X GET "https://api.autokitteh.cloud/webhooks/{your-webhook-slug}"

Reviewer: `GET` is the default for simple requests
```suggestion
         curl "https://api.autokitteh.cloud/webhooks/{your-webhook-slug}"
```

      ```

## Trigger Workflow

> Trigger the workflow using the webhook URL. Refer to the [Cloud Usage](#cloud-usage-recommended) section for detailed steps.

Reviewer: Seems like it's cleaner and clearer to move step 4 to here.

> ### Steps to Retrieve the Webhook URL

Reviewer: "Steps to" is redundant text, it dilutes the point. I'm also not sure it belong **after** step 4, because you need to do it before step 4

> - The webhook URL is provided in the output of the `ak deploy` command.

Reviewer: Actually, no, the CLI provides only the slug. Also, there's a UI way to get the URL - which does belong in the cloud usage section.

For a similar example, see the readme in #64 - but note that part of the instructions there because of the need to use a public host address in the URL, which is irrelevant in this project.

- Run the following command to retrieve the URL:
  ```shell
  ak trigger get <trigger name or ID>
  ```

> > [!TIP]

Reviewer: Is this correct only for the list-deals webhook? In other words, even though the add-contact code has defaults in code, I'm not sure it can run with an empty event (like the one you get in a manual run)

> The workflow can also be triggered manually by clicking the "Run" button in the UI. Ensure the function you want to run is set as the entrypoint.

> > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: This note is correct, but personally I think it's not useful in a single-connection project which is focused on HubSpot anyway. It's kind of obvious.

## Cloud Usage (Recommended)

1. Initialize your connection through the UI
2. Edit the trigger of the workflow you want to trigger, in the "TRIGGERS" tab, under the "Actions" column.
3. Copy the provided webhook URL.
4. Send GET or POST requests to the webhook of your choice:

   - For `create_contact_webhook`:
      ```shell
      curl "https://api.autokitteh.cloud/webhooks/{your-webhook-slug}" \
           -d email=meow@autokitteh.com \
           -d firstname=Kitty \
           -d lastname=Meowington
      ```
   - For `list_deals_webhook`:
      ```shell
         curl "https://api.autokitteh.cloud/webhooks/{your-webhook-slug}"
      ```

## Trigger Workflow

Trigger the workflow using the webhook URL. Refer to the [Cloud Usage](#cloud-usage-recommended) section for detailed steps.

### Steps to Retrieve the Webhook URL

- The webhook URL is provided in the output of the `ak deploy` command.
- Run the following command to retrieve the URL:
  ```shell
  ak trigger get <trigger name or ID>
  ```

> [!TIP]
> The list_deals workflow can also be triggered manually by clicking the "Run" button in the UI. Ensure list_deals is set as the entrypoint.

> ### Self-Hosted Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Self-Hosted Server
```

---
title: HubSpot
description: Simple usage of the HubSpot API
integrations: ["hubspot"]
categories: ["Samples"]
---

# HubSpot Sample

This [AutoKitteh](https://github.com/autokitteh/autokitteh) project
demonstrates integration with [HubSpot](https://www.hubspot.com).

It sends a couple of requests to the HubSpot API, adds a contact, retrieves deals, and prints the responses back to the user.

API details:

- [HubSpot API](https://pypi.org/project/hubspot-api-client/)
- [Python client library](https://github.com/HubSpot/hubspot-api-python)

## How It Works

1. Create a new contact in HubSpot with predefined details.
2. Retrieve and list all deals from HubSpot, displaying their IDs and names.

## Deployment & Configuration

### Cloud Usage

- Initialize your connection with HubSpot through the UI

> 

Reviewer 2: What about deploy?

### Self-Hosted Server

#### Prerequisites

- [Install AutoKitteh](https://docs.autokitteh.com/get_started/install)

#### Installation Steps

1. Clone the repository:
   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/autokitteh/kittehub.git
   cd kittehub/samples/hubspot
   ```

2. Start the AutoKitteh server:
   ```shell
   ak up --mode dev
   ```

3. Deploy the project:
   ```shell
   ak deploy --manifest autokitteh.yaml
   ```

   The output will show your connection IDs, which you'll need for the next step. Look for lines like:
   ```shell
   [exec] create_connection "hubspot/hubspot_conn": con_01jh2gx9jce6jr436fsz43g5zf created
   ```
   
   In this example, `con_01jh2gx9jce6jr436fsz43g5zf` is the connection ID.

4. Initialize your connections using the CLI:
   ```shell
   ak connection init <connection ID>
   ```

> 

Reviewer 2: Sorry, forgot to notify you but we're no longer keeping this section in the README's.
Take a look at [this sample](https://github.com/autokitteh/kittehub/blob/main/categorize_emails/README.md). We added a [generic page](https://docs.autokitteh.com/get_started/deployment) to our docs so we don't have to copy and paste so much text each time.

## Trigger Workflow

The workflow is triggered by sending an HTTP GET request.

> [!TIP]
> The workflow can also be triggered manually by clicking the "Run" button in the UI. Ensure the function you want to run is set as the entrypoint.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure that the connection with HubSpot is properly initialized before the workflow starts running.

> 

Reviewer 2: if triggering the workflow is the same for both cloud and self-hosted, then put this section right after "#Cloud Usage"
